We’ve been talking about the answer to “How
can anyone be sure they have a healthy relationship
with God?”
There’s a Bible verse that sums up the answer
to that question.
It’s in the Apostle Paul’s letter to the
Christians in Roman, chapter 6, verse 23.
The passage says: “The wages of sin is death
but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ
Jesus our Lord.”
I’ve found this diagram helpful to understand
this passage.
See what you think.
The first part of Romans 6:23 talks about
what God demands of us and how we fail to
live up to his demands.
“The wages of sin is death.”
Sin is anything we do or say or think that
doesn’t measure up to what God wants from
us.
It is anything that is contrary to who God
is.
The 10 Commandments summarize how God wants
us to live.
They talk about putting him first in our lives,
showing him respect and worshiping him with
everything we do.
They talk about showing love and respect to
everyone else.
We do that when we obey the people God has
placed in positions of responsibility over
us, when we protect the lives of others, when
we live sexually moral lives, when we help
others keep their property and good name,
when we are satisfied with what God gives
us.
I don’t keep any of those commandments as
I should.
What about you?
Actually the Bible says, no one lives according
to God’s commandments.
In Romans 3:23 the Bible says, "There is no
difference [between any of us], for all have
sinned and fall short of the glory of God."
There’s a price to pay for committing sins,
a punishment that comes along with sin.
This verse talks about a wage that sin pays.
Usually wages are something we look forward
to.
But the wages of sin are far from a positive.
“The wages of sin is death.”
The rest of the Bible makes it plain that
these wages are not just having bodies that
will die some day.
The death that our sins earn is eternal death
in the most horrible torture chamber you could
imagine.
The Bible says that those who do not obey
God “will be punished with everlasting destruction”
(1 TH 1:9).
That’s one of the ways the Bible describes
hell.
So the consequence of any amount of sin is
eternal death, eternal punishment in hell.
No one should think that they can avoid that
fate because we all sin, because we all fall
short of what God demands of us.
But look again at Romans 6:23.
The next word is only three letters but it
changes everything.
But.
It is a transitional word.
Hell is what we should expect from God, BUT....
In spite of the wages of our sins, God has
a different outcome in store for us.
God has a gift for us instead of the punishment
we deserve.
His gift is eternal life with him in heaven.
How could that be?
God is the most just of all judges.
We would not expect that a just judge would
let a criminal simply go free.
But God hasn’t stopped being a just judge
by relieving us of the wages of our sins and
giving us eternal life.
What he arranged for was for someone else
to take responsibility for the wages of our
sins, for someone else to be paid our wages
so we don’t have to face those consequences.
That’s what God did for us by sending his
Son, Jesus, to earth.
“...But the gift of God is eternal life
in Christ Jesus our Lord.”
The reason Jesus left heaven to live on earth
and to die on the cross was to pay for all
of our sins.
Jesus lived a sin-free life, the kind of life
God demands of us but we don’t live.
When he died on the cross, he suffered the
punishment in hell we have earned for ourselves
with our sins.
And he was able to live a perfect enough life
and suffer enough punishment when he hung
on the cross to cover every sin that will
ever be committed because he is the infinite
Son of God.
The infinite Son of God paid for an infinite
number of our sins.
So the Bible tells us in Romans 5:8, "God
demonstrates his own love for us in this:
while we were still sinners, Christ died for
us."
Jesus took our place, he died for us, he suffered
the eternal death that we should have experience.
And in Romans 5:11 it says, "We also rejoice
in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through
whom we have now received reconciliation."
Reconciliation means that Jesus has made us
God’s dear friends; we are no longer his
enemies who deserve his angry punishment.
There is no better news than this: “The
wages of sin is death but the gift of God
is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.”
That means, no matter what the sins are that
you have committed, they are all forgiven
in Jesus.
You have a Savior.
Your Savior is the Lord, the eternal God,
who promised that he could come to earth to
forgive our sins.
And because Jesus didn’t just die to forgive
us but came back to life three days later,
we can be sure beyond all doubt that he accomplished
his mission.
Through his life, death and resurrection,
Jesus guarantees that he has completely paid
for our sins, saved us from their punishment,
and has given us eternal life with him in
heaven.
Would you read this verse out loud with me:
“The wages of sin is death but the gift
of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our
Lord.”
That’s his gift to you.
Do you believe this?
[Yes.]
Then this gift from God belongs to you.
Your sins are forgiven.
Eternal life in heaven is waiting for you.